# The University of Lincoln Research Data Management Policy

1. The University of Lincoln recognises that the curation and sharing of research data is key to its mission to create knowledge. Research data is a key asset. Its correct management brings benefits to the university, its members and the public through greater opportunities for access and re-use.
2. This policy sets out the university's expectations for the management of research data across all academic disciplines and in all forms. 
3. The development of this policy aims to satisfy equally the requirements of researchers, funding and statutory bodies and commercial partners, that research data will be managed to the highest standards throughout the research data lifecycle. The University recognises and supports the UK Research Councils’ mandates as best practice for data curation and sharing.
4. Principal Investigators (PI) are asked to consider data creation, management or sharing in the development of their research proposals and grant applications. Increasingly, a research 'Data Management Plan' or its equivalent is a requirement of funding and should explicitly address data capture, management, integrity, confidentiality, evaluation, retention, sharing and publication. In the case of research which is not funded by an external public or commercial agency, researchers are encouraged to create a Data Management Plan as an element of best practice.
5. Staff can expect to receive training, guidance and support from Research & Enterprise Development and the Library for the development of research data management plans and their implementation.
6. In accordance with the Research Council’s timeframes for preserving access to research outputs, Principal Investigators should record the existence of research data upon creation and deposit it according to their plan (often within six months of publication of research findings). The University will preserve access for as long as specified by the data management plan (which can be up to ten years after it was last accessed). Any data which is retained elsewhere, for example in an international data service or domain repository, should be registered with the University.
7. Research metadata will be published for permanent citation alongside conventional outputs e.g. journal articles and conference papers. Open access to research data will be granted under appropriate safeguards according to conditions and timeframes specified by researchers, commercial partners and funding bodies. The University will support this through the provision of a data repository. Conditions for the licensing of research data should be made in consultation with Research & Enterprise Development and be consistent with funders' expectations.
8. The Library and ICT Services will provide the infrastructure and expertise for long-term curation, preservation and access to research data. This will include mechanisms and secure services for storage, backup, registration, deposit and retention of research data assets in support of current and future access, during and after completion of research projects. 
9. Costs to meet the specific requirements of data management plans should be included in grant applications, where permitted. The University will develop appropriate plans and budgets for meeting the costs of long-term storage, preservation and curation of research data.
10. This policy will be reviewed jointly by Research & Enterprise Development, ICT and the Library every two years. Recommendations for amendment will be submitted to the appropriate management committee.  Research & Enterprise Development will monitor compliance with this and other related policies, and the effect of such policies on the operation of the University. This policy should be considered alongside other university policies e.g. research ethics, IP policy, ICT policies, and disciplinary procedures.
